Hello and welcome to our deep dive into MongoDB and Node.js interview questions.
Today we'll cover the most important topics that appear in coding interviews.
Let's start with MongoDB fundamentals and essential query operations.
First question: What's the difference between find and findOne methods?
Find returns a cursor with all matching documents, while findOne returns just one.
Next, let's discuss indexing strategies for optimal query performance.
Compound indexes can significantly improve queries on multiple fields.
Now moving to Node.js - explain the event loop and its importance.
The event loop handles asynchronous operations without blocking the main thread.
Here's a common question: How do you handle errors in async/await functions?
Always use try-catch blocks to properly handle promise rejections.
Let's talk about MongoDB aggregation pipelines and their use cases.
Aggregation is powerful for data transformation and complex queries.
In Node.js, explain middleware in Express and how it works.
Middleware functions execute during the request-response cycle.
Finally, discuss connection pooling in MongoDB and why it matters.
Connection pooling improves performance by reusing database connections.
These concepts will help you ace your next MongoDB and Node.js interview!